---
title: Chatting about This Mundane yet Indispensable Topic Love
description: I think before the end of my life, I will complete some important answers, and "loving and being loved" will be one of the major questions. Later, with more persistent observation and thinking, I've found that it's actually a major question for everyone.
author: "Miumiu Duan"
date: '2024-03-10'
categories: ["Confusion and Thought"]
image: "img.jpg"

---



**Why Should We Talk about Love?**

1. Love? Does love still need to be talked about? Isn't it a cliché? From primary school textbooks to the process of growing up, the praises of love can be found everywhere. So what's so special about love? Approaching my thirtieth year, during the dull days that seem like I'm constantly grinding in a mill, I've been pondering over the meaning and foundation of life. And it's for the first time that I've seriously taken out this topic: how to love and how to be loved. **I think before the end of my life, I will complete some important answers, and "loving and being loved" will be one of the major questions. Later, with more persistent observation and thinking, I've found that it's actually a major question for everyone.**
    
2. Considering life as a one-way journey, what exactly are we doing all this for? Looking back from the end of life, what kind of state do we hope to achieve? — **To obtain the unique wisdom of an individual.**
    
3. How can we obtain wisdom? Wisdom requires experiences, immersion, feelings, thinking, and discrimination. And for the immersion and feelings among them, we need to embrace them with love. If we don't live consciously with love, then we will be just a body enslaved by the subconscious, hidden rules, and emotions, skimming over the surface of life in a superficial way. And being superficial means that we will be repeatedly cooled and cooked in the boiling pot of love, hatred, and various emotions in the mortal world, unable to escape the cycle of reincarnation. However, living consciously can lead us to break through the cycle of reincarnation, just like reaching the other shore of wisdom through Prajna Paramita.
    
4. Why is love so important? In "The Art of Loving", Fromm said that since birth, people have to realize that they are lonely entities. This loneliness causes people's anxiety. People's addictions, indulgences, and sexual activities are all aimed at overcoming separation and the anxiety of loneliness. Therefore, from this perspective, **love is the natural need of human beings as social animals.**
    
5. It's not just about love for people, but also love for things. Krishnamurti said in "The Significance of Life" that life is about relationships, and life means taking actions in relationships. The relationships here include those between us and ourselves, others, things, and dreams. **The meaning of life lies in cultivating our relationships with the world, and love helps us cultivate more or deeper relationships. In the weaving of relationships, we will discover our close connection with the world and the value of our own existence.**


***

**How to Understand "Love" and "Being Loved"**


1. In the past, we talked about love in a rather cursory way. Later, I realized that love actually encompasses two separate aspects: "loving" and "being loved".
    
2. I've found that different people actually have different lessons to learn. Some people know how to love but don't know how to be loved, while others know how to be loved but don't know how to love. Of course, there are also those who are not good at either. In "The Art of Loving", it is said that **"Most people would rather consider love as a problem of being loved than as a problem of loving, that is, as a problem of the ability to love. For them, love means how to be loved and how to make themselves lovable."** Men pursue status and wealth, and women pursue beauty and charm, all in an attempt to have a seemingly higher exchange value in the market judged by public taste.
    
3. How to understand "love"? **For me, love means attention, support, and responsibility.** I focus my scarce attention on you, observe you deeply, understand you, care about you, support you, and make commitments and take responsibilities. Taking responsibility means that at certain moments, for your sake or for the common good of both sides, I'm willing to sacrifice my personal interests.
    
4. In "The Art of Loving", Fromm discussed "symbiotic union" and "mature love". Symbiotic union is similar to the relationship between a mother and a fetus. In this kind of relationship, one side plays the role of a "sadist", dominating the other side, and the other side plays the role of a "masochist", submitting to the other side, with mutual psychological dependence. Observing real-life couples, it seems that most of them are like this. One side acts like a child, demanding companionship, attention, and money. The other side either demands the same things or complies with all the requests. I think this kind of heart-twisting sense of dependence can make people involved feel a strong sense of authority or being needed, thus making themselves feel less lonely. And "mature love" is a union under the condition of maintaining one's own dignity and individuality. Mature love means care, responsibility, respect, and understanding.
    
5. In "The Little Prince", the little prince met a merchant who kept calculating the number of stars non-stop. In such calculations, the merchant regarded these stars as his own property. The little prince didn't agree with him and said, "Let me tell you something else. I own a flower, and I water her every day. I own three volcanoes, and I clean them out every week. I even clean out the extinct volcanoes. Who knows when they might erupt! I'm useful to my volcanoes and my flower. But you're of no use at all to the stars..." I own you because I'm responsible for you. **Then I thought that actually we can't own anything. What we own is just a period of time spent together, and we can decide what actions to take during that time and what will happen. Thus, the bond and relationship between you and me grow from this, and what I can truly own is this relationship and all the good and bad feelings it brings.**
    
6. Later, the little prince also met a fox. The fox told him that "taming" is creating a relationship. If one side tames the other, it means that they need each other and are unique in each other's eyes. How to understand "taming"? When watching "Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour Concert Film", she showed a kind of vigorous and beautiful power on the stage. At that moment, I thought that she was like a wild horse, so powerful. She might stop voluntarily for a lush pasture, but no one could tame her. However, "The Little Prince" says that creating a relationship is "taming".
    
7. Among all forms of love, I think "romantic love" has its unique aspects. In family affection, we mostly feel safe. In friendship, we occupy each other's attention to a limited extent. The relationship is sometimes closer and sometimes more distant, like the ebb and flow of the tide. We don't feel uneasy within this rhythmic pattern. However, romantic love doesn't have the kind of "guarantee" that family affection has, yet it demands a higher level of connection than family affection and friendship. We want the relationship to always be warm. If the temperature drops a little, we'll feel cold and will be eager to solve the problem. People always seem to pursue certainty and a sense of security. Since people are very different from each other, it means that there are great differences in how individuals satisfy their sense of security and how they give it to others. In the process of such adaptation, the feelings of gain and loss in romantic love arise, or we can say the illusory gain and loss. Such illusory gain and loss control our ecstasy and our pain. But if we reexamine "possession" and "sense of security", can we filter out the uneasiness and suspicion in romantic love and leave only warmth behind?
    
8. Where does the sense of security in romantic love come from? The lack of security comes from the fear of losing and the fear that "he or she might not love me". Such fear shows that once we enter into a romantic relationship, we subconsciously assume that we "possess" the other person. Otherwise, how can we talk about losing? This fear also reveals that for many people, the sweetness of romantic love comes from the belief that they are loved, thus getting recognition of their value. Once the other person shows some signs of not loving according to one's own standards, one's sense of self-worth will be challenged, and then one will feel a low sense of self-worth and feel pain. Especially, you can deceive yourself that you don't care about the evaluations of irrelevant people, but it's hard to deceive yourself that you don't care about the evaluations of the person you love.
    
9. **In terms of possessiveness, is possessiveness an impurity in romantic love or an inescapable dark side of it?** If it's an impurity, then we can purify the feelings brought by romantic love by overcoming greed. If it's a dark side, then it's something necessary for a comprehensive understanding of romantic love. If it weren't for such a possessive desire, how could both sides invest enough attention in each other, thus leading and supporting each other to explore deeper and reach a realm that few have entered? I'm still not quite clear about this question.
    
10. In terms of value recognition, being recognized is also a fundamental human need. If people haven't established a solid system of value judgment for themselves and haven't confirmed their own missions, then everything they do may be in pursuit of recognition, seeking recognition in mainstream society and social relationships. In such recognition, they feel "success", a sense of completeness, and motivation. However, when one understands the achievements one wants to pursue, focuses on the achievements themselves rather than the halo of the achievements, and has an independent and solid system of value judgment, then one won't be easily shaken in the recognition of one's self-worth by rejections. In this process, you can relax more to enjoy the fact that "I love" and can also accept the fact that "I'm not so loved" more calmly, and won't feel too hurt because of this fact.
    
11. The basis for learning to be loved is self-love. Being loved is a kind of confidence in believing that one is worthy. In one episode of "Ugly Betty", a debater discussed how much love a person who has suffered a lot of grievances needs to fill the void. At that time, Ma Dong said that a person who has suffered a lot of grievances only needs a little bit, just a tiny bit of love. This is to tell everyone that you should feel worthy of love.

***

### On the Practice of Love

1. In today's era that emphasizes "independence", there is a group of women who believe that I am a circle and you are also a circle, and our two circles move forward independently side by side. (Of course, there is also a group of women who claim to be disenchanted with love and men, thinking that love is not worth mentioning. What they mean by it not being worth mentioning is that love is not a necessity in life, and we don't have to be involved in an unhappy or unsuitable relationship. After all, there are so many wonderful things in life. However, love is indeed an excellent environment for self-observation and the exploration of personal growth.) I wonder if one circle and another circle like this represent "mature love"? Is it the best practice of a relationship? It sounds good. I am a circle, and I walk through a certain scenery with you. Coincidentally, we have a pleasant time together. But when it's time to take different paths, then we can just part ways. This kind of independence allows you to go anywhere. But then I think, for the other person, what's so unique about us? Can we break up and say goodbye at any time? Is there a form where we are independent circles but can also have a tenon-and-mortise-like clasp to connect with each other? This clasp is probably the in-depth understanding of each other that we have gained over time and through shared experiences. In the journey of exploring ourselves and the world, you have already become my most important comrade and mentor.
    
2. In "The Little Prince", it is said that it is the time you spent on your rose that makes this rose different from other roses. And this unique difference is precisely what we pursue. In the process of us becoming independent circles, we recognize our own uniqueness. And in this kind of intimate relationship, you are recognized for this uniqueness by another independent individual or, in a sense, by the world (excluding the kind of recognition by all of humanity at the top level). You are seen, recognized, and cherished.
    
3. In the context of women's independence nowadays, more highly educated people have become more "independent". One result of this kind of independence is that "I don't rely on you." How to understand this "non-reliance"? Is it real independence? Or is it another form of the pursuit of certainty and a sense of security? She doesn't try to control the other person but instead controls herself. By avoiding devoting herself wholeheartedly and relying on others, she tries to avoid possible hurt and pain in the future. This situation can be categorized as a lack of calmness and confidence in being loved. This kind of psychological self-protection leads to a lot of reserve, tentativeness, and avoidance. Sometimes I've thought, why be afraid of falling? So what if you fall? Well, people are always afraid of getting hurt and are always trying to avoid harm. I'll leave this question for the future.
    
4. Being calculating is also part of human nature. In all forms of love, we are happy to give. However, most of the time, these acts of giving are rather stingy as we expect the other person's reciprocation in advance. And if the other person doesn't give the expected feedback, it will trigger negative emotions. So we helplessly find that many conflicts in love stem from one person's one-sided wish and the different feedback mechanisms of both sides. **I've tried to separate giving and receiving, regarding giving as an ordinary action rather than an investment. In such actions, you can obtain the happiness of emotional communication and flow. As for feedback? That's something extra.** From this perspective, it seems that you can immerse yourself more calmly in the simple joy of loving and giving.
    
5. Finally, how to understand loving and being loved? **Loving is a kind of courage that is not afraid of being let down, and being loved is a kind of confidence in believing that one is worthy.**
    
6. **"In the act of love, in the act of devoting myself, in the act of understanding another person, I found myself, I discovered myself, I discovered the two of us, and I discovered humanity."** In love, when we are obsessed with "loving or not loving", "being together or not being together", we are trapped in the anxiety of gain and loss, and we are calculating whether we have a little more or a little less. However, if we change our perspective, love is an excellent adventure for self-awareness and self-adjustment. Since it's an adventure, there will be sunny days and rainy days. Let go of your obsession and enjoy your adventure. Get wet in the rain and then bask in the sun until you reach the boundary that you can't cross anymore. Looking back at that time, perhaps you never knew that you could be so broad.
